src/ada_topics/jupyter_notebooks/markdown/objectives_materials.md, before:

# Markdown cells

## Learning objectives

After working through this topic, you should be able to:

- Describe what Markdown cells are
- Explain why adding text cells is useful
- Create Markdown cells
- Employ basic Markdown syntax:
  - title, subtitle, subsubtitle, ....
  - text in italics and bold
  - unordered list (- .... - .... )
  - ordered list (1. 1. 1. ...)
  - code in md

## Materials

Here is the
[screencast](https://electure.uni-bonn.de/paella7/ui/watch.html?id=3f42fae9-0163-4073-8348-1f73f4a83603).
These are the [slides](jupyter_notebooks-markdown.pdf).

## Additional Materials

We report below a md cheat-sheet taken from
[this website](https://www.markdownguide.org/cheat-sheet/). Additional material can also
be found [here](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet).

| Element         | Markdown Syntax                                              |
| --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Heading         | # H1<br>## H2<br>### H3                                      |
| Ordered List    | 1. First item<br>2. Second item<br>3. Third item             |
| Unordered List  | - First item<br>- Second item<br>- Third item                |
| Bold            | \*\*bold text\*\*                                            |
| Italic          | \*italicized text\*                                          |
| Blockquote      | > blockquote_line1 <br> > blockquote_line2                   |
| In-line code    | \`code\`                                                     |
| Code block      | \`\`\`python <br> first_line <br>    second_line <br> \`\`\` |
| Horizontal Rule | ---                                                          |
| Link            | \[title\](https://www.example.com)                           |

Commit message:

Embed videos, add version with German subtitles (#11)

src/ada_topics/jupyter_notebooks/markdown/objectives_materials.md, after:

# Markdown cells

## Learning objectives

After working through this topic, you should be able to:

- Describe what Markdown cells are
- Explain why adding text cells is useful
- Create Markdown cells
- Employ basic Markdown syntax:
  - title, subtitle, subsubtitle, ....
  - text in italics and bold
  - unordered list (- .... - .... )
  - ordered list (1. 1. 1. ...)
  - code in md

## Materials

Video with English subtitles:

<iframe
  src="https://electure.uni-bonn.de/paella7/ui/watch.html?id=3f42fae9-0163-4073-8348-1f73f4a83603"
  width="640"
  height="360"
  frameborder="0"
  allowfullscreen
></iframe>

Download the [slides](jupyter_notebooks-markdown.pdf).

Video with German subtitles:

*(turn subtitles on in the bottom right corner of the video)*

<iframe
  src="https://electure.uni-bonn.de/paella7/ui/watch.html?id=34dd31ab-316a-45a7-a84c-a8361df2682f"
  width="640"
  height="360"
  frameborder="0"
  allowfullscreen
></iframe>

## Additional Materials

We report below a md cheat-sheet taken from
[this website](https://www.markdownguide.org/cheat-sheet/). Additional material can also
be found [here](https://github.com/adam-p/markdown-here/wiki/Markdown-Cheatsheet).

| Element         | Markdown Syntax                                              |
| --------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------ |
| Heading         | # H1<br>## H2<br>### H3                                      |
| Ordered List    | 1. First item<br>2. Second item<br>3. Third item             |
| Unordered List  | - First item<br>- Second item<br>- Third item                |
| Bold            | \*\*bold text\*\*                                            |
| Italic          | \*italicized text\*                                          |
| Blockquote      | > blockquote_line1 <br> > blockquote_line2                   |
| In-line code    | \`code\`                                                     |
| Code block      | \`\`\`python <br> first_line <br>    second_line <br> \`\`\` |
| Horizontal Rule | ---                                                          |
| Link            | \[title\](https://www.example.com)                           |
